over the last 10 years dr. alex thornton
has designed a series of tests to try
and find out how information spreads
through meerkat societies and how they
innovate they designed a series of
innovation tasks to look at which
individuals in groups would be likely to
innovate solutions to new problems in
this experiment a scorpion is served to
a meerkat in a modified lunch box to get
to the snack
it's instinct is to try and take route 1
through the clear plastic walls but some
meerkats can learn to put aside that
instinct and take a different approach
there's another way in turn the liver in
fact the individuals that were likely to
solve them were low ranking subordinate
individuals and particularly male
dominant individuals were able to get
food by stealing so they don't need to
innovate so low ranking individuals that
need to innovate because essentially
necessity is the mother of invention
and especially the males because it's
the males who will leave their natal
group to go and look for breeding
opportunities elsewhere so they're
really going to face hardships and they
leave and it pays for them to try and
figure out new ways of getting food
you